1. Description of Committees

Executive Committee
The Executive Committee acts as the highest governing body of the organization, ensuring constitutionality of all organization-related matters.

Internal Academic Committee
The Internal Academic Committee seeks to promote and ensure academic excellence among members of the organization through hands on monitoring of the members’ academic standing.

External Academic Committee
The External Academic Committee provides academic assistance outside the organization as part of its mandate to serve the people.

Finance Committee
The Finance Committee is in charge of all monetary and business dealings of the organization, as to provide financial support for the organization’s activities.

Membership and Discipline Committee
The Membership and Discipline Committee spearheads member recruitment efforts as well as in the actuation of disciplinary action for members.

Socio-Cultural Committee
The Socio-Cultural Committee aims to promote camaraderie and teamwork among members of the organization and other sectors through actuation of intra- and inter-organizational activities.

2. General Description of Events

In line with its mandate to serve, lead, and excel, the UPLB Department of Science and Technology Scholars’ Society conducts events which aim to provide selfless service to the Filipino people, hone skills of its members and the youth to lead, and promote an excellent Philippines for its betterment and for the generations to come.

3. List of Events

a. DOST SCHOLARS’ WEEK

This week-long celebration aims to celebrate the spirit of scholarship as the organization will hold several activities to provide service to fellow DOST scholars and welcome fellow UPLB as the semester starts.

b. SCIENCE, ENGLISH, AND MATHEMATICS ENRICHMENT PROGRAM (SEMEP)

In the spirit of service, the members of the organization will provide academic assistance to Junior and Senior High Schools students to aid them in their venture towards the career they would want to pursue in the future.

c. BBB SYMPOSIUM
As part of the organization’s anniversary celebration, a symposium which tackles relevant issues will be conducted to aid in the promotion of science and technology in the University and to stress its importance to the society.

d. BLUNDERS, BREAKTHROUGHS, BAHALA NA QUIZ CONTEST

As an avenue to celebrate the wonders of science and technology in the University, the organization conducts an annual quiz contest in relation to the S&T, also as an opportunity of its promotion.

e. OUTREACH PROGRAM

As the organization way to express its gratitude for all the support and blessings received, the members immerse into communities and provide relevant aid and support.

f. ALUMNI HOMECOMING
To cap off the celebration of the organization’s anniversary, the resident members will be joined by their alumni in an annual celebration of brotherhood and sisterhood, and unending passion for service, leadership, and excellence.

g. INTRAORG

In line with the organizations’ goal to promote holistic development, this month-long event will aim to initiate camaraderie amongst resident members through the conduct of different physical and mental activities in the spirit of competitiveness and excellence.

h. PENTA MEET

Aiming to promote camaraderie and sportsmanship between other UPLB-based student organizations, this 2-month long even will showcase students’ prowess in numerous events including sports and the coveted titles of Mr. and Ms. Penta Meet.

ANNIVERSARY EXHIBIT In our efforts to introduce the organizations, its events, and members, an annual exhibit is set-up in commemoration of the organization's legacy, and as to promote science and technology.
4. About SIKAT

SIKAT is the official newsletter of the UPLB Department of Science and Technology Scholars’ Society. It features the highlights of the organization’s unending desire and passion to serve, lead, and excel.